Gwenevere Abriel: Yon
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, can't hear me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Test test test. Are you able to hear me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Test test test.
Amanda Davis: Good morning. I couldn't hear.
Gwenevere Abriel: Morning.
Amanda Davis: How are you
Gwenevere Abriel: Excellent. Happy Saturday.
Amanda Davis: Happy Saturday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so I catch me on
Amanda Davis: That the grandkids last night. So I was up late and woke up in the middle of the night, so I don't feel well rested.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, that makes it hard to concentrate doesn't. We haven't had enough sleep.
Amanda Davis: Yes, but I got to spend time with the grandkids. So that was nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what are their ages.
Amanda Davis: Two and three
Gwenevere Abriel: So cute.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm so envious. I really wish I mean part of me hopes the boys have some kids soon but part of me doesn't
Amanda Davis: Take your time in
Gwenevere Abriel: Life, you know, but selfishly, I want those grandbabies now.
Right.
Amanda Davis: I get that because it's such an amazing love. It's great.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I can't wait to spoil them and then send it back to their parents.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm excited about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, man. All right, let's see piece of paper here. So this is really our first time meeting where
Gwenevere Abriel: We get to go nice and easy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Cool, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's just kind of start from sort of working our way to
Gwenevere Abriel: So far, what's kind of been cool about this program.
Amanda Davis: You're experiencing a nice that
Amanda Davis: Everybody's really nice personable and helpful very willing to answer any questions medication that's helping me with withdraws and helping me dt. Yeah. Okay, excellent.
Gwenevere Abriel: And just so I'm kind of get a frame of reference.
Gwenevere Abriel: How many milligrams. So we start you off at these days.
Amanda Davis: Two and a half.
Amanda Davis: Two and
Amanda Davis: A half threats. So 20 milligrams
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we typically we've got right so 1617 1819 2020 milligrams. Yep. You got it. Okay, honey. I know grams. Okay. Um, and how many days. Would you say you felt like okay I feel stable my new normal at this 20 milligrams, how, how, how many days if you felt kind of like no symptoms.
Amanda Davis: Oh, I still get them.
Amanda Davis: I don't feel good. Yeah, okay. Don't feel good yet.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hmm, let me ask you, you're, you're being seen by witch doctor is it all women or or
Amanda Davis: What your lady.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, OK. OK, I'll brielle and she has you taking the 20 milligrams, are you taking it the same time a day right in the morning when you get up.
Amanda Davis: Right in the morning when I do that, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And when, when do you start to to feel
Amanda Davis: Your by wake up in the night. It's like that. It gets me pretty well through the day. But if I wake up in the night. I'm like, yes, diarrhea goal.
Amanda Davis: Multiple tension, but I was on a lot of pain pills. I was taking 16 hours of morphine and 30 milligrams of oxy cotton and
Amanda Davis: I would get 120 oxy cotton, then I would get 100 know I get 120 oxy cotton 6030 milligrams and 60 milligrams of morphine.
Amanda Davis: So I was
Amanda Davis: Pretty loaded. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: What, how much are you doing today.
Amanda Davis: And I was taken as prescribed. And I was taking six of the 13th day and
Amanda Davis: I think it was for the morphine. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And for four of the. Okay, yeah, that's a lot. I feel you on that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Amanda Davis: All right breast cancer. I had a car accident. So I was going through a lot of surgeries at a double mastectomy.
Amanda Davis: So I've had lots of surgeries and I got into a car accident and my back. Got all messed up, but they have procedures and stuff. So I got addicted through not off the street, but in the doctor's office. Right, right, right.
Amanda Davis: Ricky
Gwenevere Abriel: How, how
Gwenevere Abriel: How should these days. How are you feeling sort of with those conditions you just mentioned, you know, the, the injuries from the car accident and and and the history of cancer. How is your physical health.
Amanda Davis: I just feel really tired.
Amanda Davis: Yeah, okay. Just like beat up who, you know, but I am getting older and I had a late night with the grandkids, so I let them stay up and watch movies and we jumped on the bed and had fun so dinner and
Amanda Davis: It was nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah you covered down in the beginning, I was kind of getting a little bit of an update on how your physical health is, you mentioned just now you felt tired. Right.
Amanda Davis: Asthma and I'm fighting some breathing problems right now I'm going to see a lung specialist in a heart specialist. I had a heart attack.
Amanda Davis: And they don't know when. But they can tell I've had it and they told me I needed a heart specialist. So I've got to see him and then I've got to see a lung specialist because
Amanda Davis: I keep going and not the hospital to for breathing. They have to put me an oxygen. Give me steroids and some other breathing medications in the hospital.
Amanda Davis: So anything
Gwenevere Abriel: In any given day. Um, what are some symptoms that you're experiencing.
Amanda Davis: A I have shortness of breath, I have just been
Amanda Davis: I have to take monocles it's a singular okay if I don't have singulair I can't breathe.
Amanda Davis: I end up in the hospital on oxygen. So that scary about a year. Yeah, they've got to figure something out. Because that's not that's not stable enough for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: No good.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm really glad you're making sure that you're following up
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, because you want to have quality of life be able
Gwenevere Abriel: To play
Right.
Amanda Davis: Exactly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's see. And you're right now or your
Gwenevere Abriel: Or your grandkids living with you. Who are you living with these days.
Amanda Davis: And I have my own apartment, but I'm visiting my grandkids and my my doctor for a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: For
Amanda Davis: A couple weeks. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there any tension between you and your and your daughter.
Amanda Davis: No. Okay. Sometimes she can be mean, but
Amanda Davis: I'm not. I'm more mature now that I'm older.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you guys ever have any
Gwenevere Abriel: Sort of family therapy because I don't know the history there, but was there ever a time when you met with a professional to talk
Amanda Davis: Yeah, good.
Amanda Davis: Family Therapy. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're like in your 20s or something.
Amanda Davis: When I had heard
Gwenevere Abriel: All I was asking if you had family therapy when you were in your 20s.
Amanda Davis: When I had breast cancer. I did family therapy.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did some interesting things come out from that therapeutic work that surprised you
Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Why, why do you think she's being mean what's actually
Amanda Davis: She's battling her own mental health stuff and thirsty blazing her own limits so
Gwenevere Abriel: Fish. Does she have a mood disorder that says she's been diagnosed well
Amanda Davis: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it like a bipolar disorder, possibly, I
Amanda Davis: Don't feel comfortable giving her diagnosis.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, that's just just
Amanda Davis: And
Gwenevere Abriel: I completely understand
Gwenevere Abriel: But just to review that because that that definitely can be a concern for people. Everything that you say in here stays right in here, it doesn't
Gwenevere Abriel: It doesn't go in, even into group.
Gwenevere Abriel: Meaning, let's say you decide to discuss something in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would probably say, hey, is this something you want to talk about in group. And if you said no, like to keep it in here or if you say, Yes, I do. You know, it's good for me to kind of share this and move past some shame.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, even then I would still protect that information and say, Listen, Amanda, you mentioned earlier, you wanted to talk about something and it kind of be good if you brought it up. They're very separate for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Not going to bring anything in there because you guys would feel uncertain about wanting to share in here. If you thought that
Gwenevere Abriel: He brought out so I'm glad you brought that topic up to
Amanda Davis: Oh, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you're you're sounding pretty optimistic that as medication comes online for your daughter or whatever the treatment is that whatever that meanness is will be resolved.
Amanda Davis: That it's, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Definitely sightings. Oh, good, good, good, good.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, and
Gwenevere Abriel: So still some symptoms and does it seem like your doctor is understanding what you're going through.
Gwenevere Abriel: Regarding the continued symptoms that are present.
Amanda Davis: Um, yeah, they were going to wean me down and keep me on the bills and it's like I'm never going to get off if I do it the way they want to they want to prescribe me all my pills again tell him.
Amanda Davis: I told them.
Amanda Davis: My pain management. Oh, and I told him I can't do this, you know, I'm I'm nodding off in the middle of the day eg me I don't feel good, you know it's it's at the point where I
Amanda Davis: The pain management, like the Suboxone helps with pain to
Gwenevere Abriel: It is a very strong analgesic opiate actually it is quite a strong one.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're also seeing what's
Amanda Davis: going on underneath me feel high like the pain pills.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know that's so cool, isn't it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah yeah so
Gwenevere Abriel: The pain management doctor that you're seeing what's the name of the pain management doctor that you're seeing
Amanda Davis: I no longer school. Yeah, he's in a different state.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, you said something about they wanted to put you back on something.
Amanda Davis: Yeah. The last time I talked to him about a month ago. I told him no, then that's when I found your program. Okay. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so a couple of neat things about buprenorphine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that, like you said, I mean, you, you may notice when it you know about 20 minutes after you put it on your, your tongue, you're going to notice you know when it's in your bloodstream, but it's not the same euphoria that all of those short acting Opiates are going to give you. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. The other really neat thing about it is that you don't you know how you had to keep taking more and more and more.
Gwenevere Abriel: To get the same effect that doesn't happen. You don't build tolerance.
Gwenevere Abriel: For yeah so you're you're in here. You're not going to go up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, good. Yeah, so that's, those are two really great things about it.
Amanda Davis: Good. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's see. Let me come take a look at kind of how you identified and we only met that very brief time
Gwenevere Abriel: For that assessment and some of the things you identified that you wanted to work on where I want to be clean and sober off of everything that was something sort of a really big long term goal right
Amanda Davis: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then another one was, I want to get a job and then it was, I want to lose some weight. I want to be. Okay, so we're around. Are you feeling stable enough to even begin to think about job at this point.
Amanda Davis: Though
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't think so. It was like why she's not feeling good yet.
Amanda Davis: Later, and I figured, after I been clean for some time.
Amanda Davis: You know, I'll feel better. And, you know, because I used to just sleep a lot and know I have to get my stamina backup.
Amanda Davis: It's like
Amanda Davis: You know, that's a big part of the reason I wanted to clean is so I could live again.
Gwenevere Abriel: And just so that just around this topic of job.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was that the only issue was around the substance use, like you were too busy maybe looking for it or you were nodding off or something like what was the problem area around jobs.
Amanda Davis: I couldn't even drive as medicated as I was
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, yeah.
Amanda Davis: That makes sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I got you.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: What, what were some of the fields of interest that you kind of enjoy it, though.
Amanda Davis: Um, I
Amanda Davis: Work in home health care.
Amanda Davis: Nursing homes, stuff like that, or in home health care where you go in and take care of the patient. Give them medication, take them to the doctors, Steve, you know, just stable home health care. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Amanda Davis: And then I worked at Wells Fargo. I really enjoyed that works at the bank for like two years and at AMP T call center was very much alike with the bank. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are you looking for next time. Do you think and
Amanda Davis: Probably start with like customer service as the easiest
Amanda Davis: Like, just go work for a bank customer service with a call in and they've got a complaint or a question about their statement I can answer alone, a small loan right up with that, you know, things like that.
Okay.
Amanda Davis: Good. I stayed in bed, yesterday I was pale and then I got up out of bed like I stayed in bed tall like probably one o'clock in the afternoon.
Amanda Davis: I can come down with something the grandkids are sick. And I think I'm catching it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I have those kids their little Petri dishes as cute as they are, though.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Excellent. So first it's really about getting getting some physiological stability getting that sleep sort of managed
Gwenevere Abriel: And then it's going out and any other barriers as far as for some people what they end up saying when they meet with me as you know what, when I really look at it. I've let my driver's license. Go. I need to go get my license. Is there any other
Amanda Davis: Things like that. No, I got my license.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right. And, and, and then you mentioned this other thing you said I want to lose some weight.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that more about, I need to shift to eating healthier to feel the body or is there some sort of
Amanda Davis: Cause I had a heart attack and didn't even know it. So I know I need to lose some weight. I see.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's your doctor telling you about that.
Amanda Davis: They're trying to get me into a heart specialist
Gwenevere Abriel: Around
Amanda Davis: Oh,
Amanda Davis: And all that
Gwenevere Abriel: When you met when you had the the heart incident. Did someone say something about weight to you or you came to that on your own.
Amanda Davis: Game to that on my own.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I see. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so you're not any any medication or anything for the
Amanda Davis: Event. No, I need to huh
Gwenevere Abriel: When, when was it this incident happened.
Amanda Davis: It happened like a year ago and I was battered and follow up on it because those on those pills and
Amanda Davis: I didn't take good care of myself. I'm just getting everything back in order. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So really it's not about weight so much as really making sure that you're eating well, making sure that you know what if there's an exercise regimen that it's right on board with whatever's appropriate following that heart incident.
Amanda Davis: Right, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I get it. So you first. It's kind of like I need to schedule an appointment with a specialist
Amanda Davis: Mm hmm. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That makes a lot of sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Amanda Davis: And how long is this meeting an hour or half an hour.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, they're always going to be an hour at a minimum, but it'll be 45 minutes
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's do this right now. We're very sort of starting way on the outside, you are developing your poor. You don't know me. Right. So this that has to take a little bit of time.
Amanda Davis: To
Gwenevere Abriel: Know it's Glenn.
Amanda Davis: You can call in real
Amanda Davis: Yeah. Yes. Your name.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. You can call me when
Amanda Davis: Okay, when
Gwenevere Abriel: Excellent. So let's do this because sometimes when
Gwenevere Abriel: There's a lot of emotion going on. I'll start to get a little nauseous. We'll see if we can find a place to prop up that phone so that you and I can kind of sort of have some sort of face to face.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe prop me up on some books or something.
Amanda Davis: You see my face there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nope, okay. Take your time, no rush.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Um, we're almost there. I would say that right now. I can't see you, only because you have some sort of rack in the way. So maybe I'll
Amanda Davis: Hold up on
Gwenevere Abriel: Ya know, I think that part's fine, you might just want to scoot a little closer is all that worked fine. It was just moving
Amanda Davis: You don't have a bookshelf. I don't have anything
Amanda Davis: might fall down, but that's
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
That's great.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you were able to find someplace just now. That's wonderful. Whoo.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so just kind of bring me up to speed on
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe some things that you've already learned maybe through something you've read or maybe online or maybe from a friend when it comes to regulating emotions do you do already. I don't want to teach you something or talk about something you already know about
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you already incorporated
Amanda Davis: What I've had therapy and stuff when I was dealing with my PTSD.
Amanda Davis: And I learned a lot in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so let me hear a little bit about what you learned. So I don't repeat things you already have sort of
Amanda Davis: Identify with the triggers was the big thing.
Amanda Davis: I would be willing to take on any information you have for me. Okay. Okay.
So,
Gwenevere Abriel: When it comes to the symptoms of PTSD diagnosis. I will tell you, I do things a little differently than a lot of people I don't ask that people read tell their story if they don't want to, which is kind of nice when people don't feel like
Amanda Davis: Sharing that time.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That comes in time, if people feel like sharing little pieces of it, that's fine, but the interventions that we might do once you start to feel safe in here. It doesn't require that. So that's kind of a reassurance. I think for a lot of people
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's, why don't we start today with
Gwenevere Abriel: We'll start with two, which I like to teach right away, and one of them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even years later, it is the one thing that seems to make the most difference. And it's the belly breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And a lot of people
Gwenevere Abriel: Think that it's about breathing through the nose or they might say, oh, it's about the four counts or something, but it's not. It's about activating the Vegas nerve. And has anybody talked to you about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so we'll go a little science. If I lose you, and you forget. Just know that you don't have to believe in it for it to work its scientific. So that's kind of nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not a psychological trick.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's kind of reassuring if you kind of have that science mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like I liked it for that reason.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so, um, I'll go over it quite a few times. Right now I'm just going to kind of talk about it kind of talk about the science and then I will show it to you or talk about it. And then we can do some together. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so the science.
Gwenevere Abriel: There is a nerve called the Vegas nerve and it's also called a wandering nerve because it wanders around it's connected to brain our even our face larynx bearings heart long spleen kidney, it's, it's like wanders around it just connects to all kinds of organs throughout our body.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what's amazing about this particular breathing that we're going to do. Technically, it'd be like diet for medic breathing but belly breathing my clients can remember that they have to expand the belly. So I use the word belly in the name of it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what ends up happening is when you breathe in the lower part
Gwenevere Abriel: Of of the lung. Most of us breathe, breathe up here and we can see our shoulders move
Gwenevere Abriel: We've gotten used to breathing the short the short shallow breaths, but it doesn't get the air down pushing the diaphragm down and expanding the belly. So what's different about this is when we breathe and our stomach comes out like this, as if blowing up a balloon.
Gwenevere Abriel: It actually pushes the visceral, those are our organs down below the diaphragm and watch what happens.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Remember that Vegas nerve that's wrapped around those organs. It's really cool it at it sends a signal up that Vegas nerve right to our brain. And it says, oh, look at us. Breathing deeply, we must not be in danger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Haha. It's really cool because in our head. We're going, Oh my gosh, this is so awful. Right. We're triggered by a memory. We're triggered by a smell or a cent or we don't even know what just happened. It went. It was an unconscious trigger something got activated on us, we perceived a threat.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's happening up here up in our brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, what's amazing is this signal that's coming up the Vegas nerve guess but it contradicts that thought.
Gwenevere Abriel: It down regulates
Gwenevere Abriel: The oxygen demand in the heart.
Gwenevere Abriel: It sends the message we don't need to be having Rapid. Rapid fast short breaths. It says, Oh, we're okay.
Amanda Davis: It contradicts the OH.
Gwenevere Abriel: My gosh, I'm in danger thought because the body is saying we're okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, that's the parasympathetic nervous system being activated the sympathetic one that was that scared activated terrified thought that was sympathetic
Gwenevere Abriel: And the Vegas nerve. I also call it the Vegas break is is the parasympathetic nervous system.
Gwenevere Abriel: We love it because the breath, we, we always have access access to it could be standing in line at the grocery store, we could be, you know, you know, just about to, maybe, you know, yell at a kid or yell at someone and we say, wait a minute.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, wait, something's going on with me. I don't want to do this thing I'm going to do this, this belly breathing and you can do it wherever nobody even needs to know you're doing it so
Amanda Davis: Great.
And we can come
Amanda Davis: Over interesting I just tried it. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's great. We'll do some more together to
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's the science behind it. And after we do it. There's a second mechanism of change also happening. And that has to do more with a cognitive thing that's going on because I'm going to teach it as
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll be a four count. Inhale, a four count holding of the breath. It'll be a four count. Exhale, and it'll be a four count holding of the breath. It's not a natural breath. It's, it's, it takes, actually a lot of concentration to do
Gwenevere Abriel: Which has the benefit cognitively of distracted attention and really focused attention, which gets us off the what if I get hurt, what if what if I'm in danger thought. So that's kind of nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that is the science behind it. So remember I was saying you
Amanda Davis: Don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I was saying you don't actually have to believe it for it to work. I mean, it's not like you have to believe that your heart is really a, you know, it's going to do it unconsciously. Like, you don't have to believe that your heart's going to keep pumping. If you've been up say stop.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's going to keep pumping
Amanda Davis: Yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's kind of reassuring that this will work, even when your mind is, I do. It's no no it's not. No, it's not. Yes it well.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's me.
Amanda Davis: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, that's why I want people to have that first. So now I'm going to show you what I'm talking about.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so another piece of it if you want to do it with what I call fidelity, which means really concentrating and do it the way I'm instructing
Gwenevere Abriel: If you decide to do it that way. It has the added benefit of the added like difficulty of it. It's hard to actually do it exactly the way I'm going to instruct it which means it's going to distract you.
Gwenevere Abriel: You won't be ruminating you won't be sort of that. Oh, no, it will focus your brain somewhere else. So this is the instruction. So the instruction is to include some of the sort of mindfulness practices. Maybe you've picked up along the way through this other psychotherapy right and now
Gwenevere Abriel: Pay attention to the tactile experience of the air coming in through your nose because it will be an inhale that's coming in through the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's going to take four seconds. So you'll be paying attention to the sensation. If you do it. I'm just going to teach, which obviously you can do with me if you like right now just teaching. So it's inhaling through for four seconds so
And you hold it for four which is really difficult.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then exhaling, it'll be a deliberate exhale right yep out of the mouth. We you feel you actually pay attention to how that air fields as it's being XML from the mouth.
Gwenevere Abriel: As that long as flattening and of course that stomach comes in a little bit too, as you're exhaling all that air out and then yeah and then you hold that breath out for four seconds. So it looks like this. I'm just teaching. So it's an inhale.
Hold 321 exhale
Hold 321 inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold. So now the key member I was saying, with a very
Gwenevere Abriel: IMPORTANT PIECE OF THIS belly breathing is
Gwenevere Abriel: It's that the air.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not stay up here. So we're normally we do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: We need to push as if expanding a balloon. Each time we enhance so
Gwenevere Abriel: You see the difference.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, if you're having a hard time I have this funny.
Gwenevere Abriel: Funny label for, you know, a lazy boy chair. You know how lazy boy we put our hands like this. So if we do the lazy boy pose our, our, our chest opens up a little bit. We have a little bit of room in there to kind of get some air even
Gwenevere Abriel: If it's uncomfortable as a couple other options. You go, so do what I call the Superman or Wonder Woman pose. We've kind of put your hands on your hips back and open it up.
Gwenevere Abriel: If that's uncomfortable you let's say you were seated on a desk chair or something and your legs were hanging down, you might want to tuck your hands underneath those size. So, but the point is, look what happens when I do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: My chest opens up because I need
Amanda Davis: Air
Gwenevere Abriel: My knees if I'm doing this. I'm not going to be able to do the belly breathing right that yeah I'm not gonna be able to get an error in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I want to do that. So we're going to do it together. Do you feel like you're you've got an expanded sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: Rib cage. I think so too. It doesn't have to be too too much as. So once you to feel comfortable, like we got to be reasonable, because we want you to be doing it up, you know, a few times a day. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's do this together. Do you feel the most important part is that that air get down to the bottom of the long. Can you feel the difference between like go back and forth. One of them is just a short upper breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where it's only at the top and now feel one word your shoulders don't move, but just the belly gets puffed out. Can you feel the difference
Gwenevere Abriel: You can just
Gwenevere Abriel: Feel like does it feel like not as much air gets in there. When you do in the belly. Does it feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: No. No. Okay.
Amanda Davis: Same
Gwenevere Abriel: feels the same.
Amanda Davis: Yeah. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Fine. So really,
Amanda Davis: quite uncomfortable. I think I'm going to do the ones worse it
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, me too. I'm going to spend on mine too.
Amanda Davis: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And of course you can also not worry about the hands because remember the most important part, not even the nose, not even the four count, not even the holding. It's about that that air make it down to the bottom of that long.
Gwenevere Abriel: You'll rob yourself of the opportunity of that Vegas nerve being activated and at the parasympathetic nervous system is going to send the message up to the brain. Oh, if we're not breathing. Breathing fast. Well, we're probably pretty safe and we don't need to fight anybody or run away.
Amanda Davis: Okay.
Right, because that's what
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what the sympathetic nervous system is saying it's like oh my gosh, we're in danger, danger. Okay, so we're going to do it together. Remember, the most important is the belly breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's do this together. So we're gonna
Gwenevere Abriel: So do your exhale all the way out. So I can kind of see where you're at, with it. There we go. And let's inhale into the nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 exhale
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 in health, the nose, big belly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold 321 exhale out.
Hold 321 inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hold 321 exhale
Hold 321 in health
And hold 321 exhale
Gwenevere Abriel: going all out and hold 321 inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now let's do one on your own way, you're counting for yourself.
Okay.
Nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: See if you can keep the shoulders down on the next inhale just extend the belly. That's hard to do.
Amanda Davis: I couldn't even suck in for four seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: So remember on the inhale. This is why this is so difficult for people, the inhale the belly goes point like a balloon look
Gwenevere Abriel: It's hard to do that. We stopped doing that. Think about it. When your grandbabies where we're tiny right you can picture their little bellies when they're breathing. They go poof, poof, both have
Gwenevere Abriel: We stopped doing that, you know, we did it when we were babies. We can do it again. But it's actually difficult to do. And it might be because of the way you're seated so you can practice it another time. And I'm happy to go over it again if you
Amanda Davis: Okay, thank you. Maybe we'll do it each each group or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, well, so this is individual therapy.
Amanda Davis: And that's what I mean. Individual therapy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. When and don't be surprised. Don't be hard on yourself. If you find it difficult because
Gwenevere Abriel: It's, it's like we forgot to breathe deeply down in that long, but it can have a profound impact on down regulating or otherwise really activated moment for really angry or really impatient and really irritable.
Gwenevere Abriel: It can bring us down quite quickly to a sense of a relaxed body and feeling calm.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what's neat is that once the body is relaxed were before all of our blood was in our large muscle groups like our thighs because we needed to run
Gwenevere Abriel: Or fight when we're feeling anxious. Now guess what, it's in our fingers. It's in our toes and it's up in our prefrontal cortex where we can actually go oh yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, this isn't that big of a deal really care about this this manager. What a Bozo. Am I going to worry about him. I'm just going to keep doing my thing, right, we can use that logic and reason. But when we're activated. It's really hard to remember that stuff.
Right, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, for you. What's one of the emotions that you kind of find the most distressing in your life.
Amanda Davis: What do you mean
Amanda Davis: Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: When I say the word emotion. You've been in therapy before you know what an emotion is right.
Amanda Davis: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which emotion. Do you have the most difficulty around
Amanda Davis: The scene. My kids they live out in Ohio. So missing them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, how often you get to see him.
Amanda Davis: In the summer in the summer.
Amanda Davis: I'm here with my oldest daughter, she's 21 my youngest is 14 and my middle is 15
Gwenevere Abriel: And and who are they staying with
Amanda Davis: Their father
Amanda Davis: How's the relationship with him. It's okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does he do anything to sort of keep them away from you. Sometimes I pulled under you. Oh.
Amanda Davis: Yeah, but he is pretty good about if I come up with the money for the summer. He's pretty good about letting me have them.
Gwenevere Abriel: So maybe this summer. They could even stay with you.
Amanda Davis: That's the I'm probably gonna have to take him to court family court for that. Okay. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So all right, and this we haven't quite said what the emotion is so when you are missing them. How do you feel emotionally when
Amanda Davis: Yeah, yeah, that
Gwenevere Abriel: How much of the day. Does that kind of consume your are kind of take up
Amanda Davis: I've gotten better used to take up more the day but now it's I can't control it just comes when it runs
Gwenevere Abriel: It used to be more but now it's maybe an hour a day 20 minutes sort of pops in and you can
Amanda Davis: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you tell yourself that helps alleviate the sadness.
Amanda Davis: I get a call every Sunday, have a video call. So we do a video chat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Amanda Davis: Nuts every Sunday, you
Amanda Davis: Know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, something you really look forward to huh
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: How long has it been like this where they've been away from you.
Amanda Davis: It's been about three years and I had them since they were born.
Amanda Davis: I had some health problems, the mental problems. I'd go get in treatment and they went to their dads and never came back.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're ready to have no I'm just curious was, was there ever a
Amanda Davis: work to do on myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, no, I got you, I got you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: We're starting that process, right. We're starting it
Gwenevere Abriel: Can it can I check in a little bit with
Gwenevere Abriel: Did anything negative happen with another therapist or did someone betraying you or
Gwenevere Abriel: Something anything negative happened with a with a past therapist.
Amanda Davis: And I got really close with their best. And then I went to go see them and I got thrown out of the office and arrested, he he later lost his license.
Amanda Davis: He was doing crazy things giving people medications they should have bring people out not giving them explanations. I don't know why he did that, you know, I went in handcuffs. They let me go, but
Gwenevere Abriel: Why were you, why would you get handcuffed, what would happen.
Amanda Davis: That's what I want to know. I never got that.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't know why you arrested know
Amanda Davis: They let me go.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I see. Okay. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you trusted him.
Amanda Davis: Huh oh my goodness, how
Gwenevere Abriel: long have you been seeing him.
Amanda Davis: For about a year.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then turns out something
Amanda Davis: He got shut down a loss of life. And I was like, well, I guess it's karma.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you don't even know right what what happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: So is it is it kind of like that. Now, like you wonder, is the trust possible here and is your intuition or your reading of what to trust and not trust.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like, can. Can you believe what you're feeling and here it might happen again. Like, what if there's something
Amanda Davis: Nefarious boy, girl, safer because I can't get caught in thrown out.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, we can we can look at what what did work.
Amanda Davis: Let's look at what didn't work.
Gwenevere Abriel: What was it about this gentleman that helped you feel safe.
Amanda Davis: You're just always open and honest. I like you a lot will get closer.
Gwenevere Abriel: So he was
Open
Gwenevere Abriel: So he was open. So tell me, tell me what you mean by he was open.
Amanda Davis: It was always open with information for me to me helping me along the way. You know, like a therapist should okay
Gwenevere Abriel: And the prior to
Gwenevere Abriel: Prior prior to that one. And was he treating the symptoms of the PTSD.
Yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And do you remember what He taught you.
Amanda Davis: Kind of spaced it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's hard for that stuff to stay. Sometimes, isn't it.
Gwenevere Abriel: This piece that I just gave you today.
Gwenevere Abriel: I hope you hold on to it tight.
Amanda Davis: The breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and and it's okay if you end up saying, oh, I forgot one, but you're going to probably come back to it as one of the most important pieces.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it's biological it's it's a self healing thing. Your body knows how to repair itself. And that's beautiful.
Amanda Davis: Isn't it
Gwenevere Abriel: Isn't it is. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I like to capitalize on those things, things that what it's already sort of in us.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, it says right yeah so already know how to breathe. It's just remembering how to do it, bringing that air all the way down into the
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: What about maybe something that he taught you.
Gwenevere Abriel: About cognitive. So those are our thoughts. Do you remember anything having to do with maybe
Amanda Davis: That about that you're better than he is.
Gwenevere Abriel: So there's, there's a whole philosophy and and and psychology around
Gwenevere Abriel: How we believe we are capable of handling a particular situation.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Yeah, so a big piece of it will be in in taking a look at what your beliefs are about yourself. We'll look at that and we'll see if we can loosen it up a little bit and and bring in some positive thoughts about you to see what's yeah yeah
Amanda Davis: That would be nice. Uh huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: And did they ever do any did this gentleman or another therapist ever do any would you recognize em, Dr. As an intervention. Did anybody ever do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: No. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That'll be something probably quite a bit down the line. That'd be some preparation before that, but it's it's a bilateral stimulation. So there'd be there'd be a light in here together, you'd be looking at a light while I
Gwenevere Abriel: invited you to pull up maybe a piece of either worry about the future and a negative thought and there's a lot of preparation that goes into it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Amanda Davis: But I'm interested in that. That would be neat. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It has been effective especially. It's actually the evidence based treatment for PTSD. It's actually an
Gwenevere Abriel: X Ray Yeah.
Amanda Davis: Well, I don't know why they do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, he you need some specialized training in it that might not be something that that he offered man, I've only been doing it here in Braveheart in the tele health for about two months.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I didn't, I didn't think it would work. But it's working. Because usually yeah people typically have these little vibrating pads in their hands and obviously you can have that. But I've been able to
Gwenevere Abriel: If you have an iPad or something larger I've been able to have this blue light. And if you guys only have your phone, then we set up.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a little clunky, but as long as you have a sense of humor, we do it. We take a little more preparation than today, but you can set your phone up and we would have two objects so that you could be looking left and right. And you know what, it works.
Gwenevere Abriel: So right i'm not hung up on it looking looking cute. I wanted to just work.
Right.
Amanda Davis: Okay.
All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um, this is this is new for you.
Amanda Davis: All right, and I
Gwenevere Abriel: Know it's going to take some time. I do send some some anxiousness is do you have any questions for me as we're just getting to know each other. Do you have some questions that would help.
Amanda Davis: No, okay. No, I'm just a little uncomfortable. It'll break
Amanda Davis: I like you a lot and I, I'm excited about looking forward to therapy with you and I think it'll help my healing and my girls, then I'm really excited.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're noticing that in group different topics come up. Right.
Amanda Davis: We cover.
Gwenevere Abriel: We cover different things. Some of them you'll relate to some of them, man.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: More days than not. Well, may I kind of like this one, or I have no idea what she's talking about.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you ever do kind of wonder why does she say you are more than welcome to say, oh, could you explain that word or give you an example. If you could or
Gwenevere Abriel: You might, you know, if, let's say some you can relate to someone in the group and you want to share your own story about something, feel free to do that as well. Okay.
Amanda Davis: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, so let's schedule. Our next appointment. You did fantastic you learned
Amanda Davis: Very oh
Gwenevere Abriel: You just learned belly breathing and if all the things that makes the difference for people in emotional regulation, it's that one.
Amanda Davis: Okay, emerald practice that today we can see my head and the posture and the positions and all that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Most important part is that
Amanda Davis: That's right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that you see. And you can even watch her own hands that probably helped the most is watching on the inhale that it goes pushing out
Amanda Davis: Yeah.
Amanda Davis: I need more medicine.
Gwenevere Abriel: Absolutely. I appreciate your reminding. Let me just go over to the database and do that right now.
Amanda Davis: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, what time let's schedule something during the week next week.
Amanda Davis: Friday. Is that a good day that I have that day off.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: We already have something. This is great. You and I already have something
Gwenevere Abriel: Do we, yes, we're so smart. We looked ahead. And because we knew Friday, you had off, you know, we have we have 9am on March six, with just Friday.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, perfect. Yeah.
Amanda Davis: Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh. That's right.
Amanda Davis: We want to
Amanda Davis: 930 or nine
Gwenevere Abriel: Nine on the nose am
Amanda Davis: OK, OK. I don't
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't go anywhere. I'm going to message.
Amanda Davis: Your message like you did last time.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm pretty good at actually I'm not bad.
Amanda Davis: I mean, you remember
Gwenevere Abriel: So make sure you write it down, though, because that's just sort of a courtesy thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, put it in your phone. So hold on just a second. I'm going to message her doctor. Okay.
Amanda Davis: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's Dr. Dr. Aubrey L. Correct.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's gray haired lady.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Amanda t is here for her individual counseling and you attend which which group.
Amanda Davis: Monday that at
Amanda Davis: One o'clock. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's beautiful. So she's going to probably get you covered to then and then we'll see you
Gwenevere Abriel: Monday at one. Okay.
Amanda Davis: Well, she's got to get me back on getting the medicine for a week straight because I can't go to the pharmacy, three, four times a week.
Amanda Davis: She was giving me a week's medics than every, every group.
Amanda Davis: She going to do that they give me my week's worth on
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know. You'll have to talk with her.
Amanda Davis: It's just been a weird getting two strips or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I can tell you the reasoning for that, though, when people first start
Gwenevere Abriel: They're not going to show up for therapy, nine out of 10 times because medications not attached to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: In the early phase of treatment medication is the motivator for most people to show up later on. Once people
Gwenevere Abriel: Really get, oh my gosh, my relationships are getting better. I'm not as irritable. I'm not as sad. I'm not as anxious, people start on their own showing up for individual therapy on their own and it doesn't take that motivator.
Amanda Davis: Does that make sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it's going to change. That's the reason
Amanda Davis: Why beyond the week and I was there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I heard you. So now you have an undersea have an understanding of what was going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: So like the is here for yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Um, we got next. I see is, and we are already set for when are we meeting next you and I
Amanda Davis: Friday at 9am
Gwenevere Abriel: You got it, girl. I'll see you on Monday. Enjoy your brand based
Amanda Davis: All right, thank you. Have a good one.
Gwenevere Abriel: You too.
Amanda Davis: Bye, baby.